PROMPT: If DC(x,y) and EC(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the following two pieces of information:
 • DC(x,y) means that x and y are completely “apart” – even their boundaries do not meet.
 • EC(y,z) means that y and z touch exactly at their boundaries but their interiors do not intersect.

The question is: what can the relation between x and z be?

To answer this we ask: Given that x is “far away” from y (so none of x’s points, not even on its boundary, come close to any of y’s points) and that y touches z (so some point of z’s boundary is “pinched” by y), what kinds of spatial arrangements between x and z can occur?

One may imagine a “chain” of regions connected by the middle region y. The fact that x is separated from y does not force any special kind of relation with z; it only “knows” that y (which touches z at one boundary point) is not near x. In fact, by choosing different shapes and positions you can make x and z be arranged in several qualitatively distinct ways.

For example, one may have:
 1. x and z are entirely separated (so even x and z do not come in contact). That is, x and z may be DC.
 2. x and z may be “just touching” (their boundaries meet but their interiors do not overlap). In that case x and z are EC.
 3. x and z may be “in contact” in a stronger way – for example, parts of x may enter z (or vice‐versa) so that their interiors overlap but neither is contained in the other. This is the PO (partial overlap) relation.

Indeed, one may try to “compose” the given relations via a middle region y. In the literature on the RCC‐8 calculus (see, for example, Randell, Cui and Cohn’s work on “A Spatial Logic based on Regions and Connection”) the (weak) composition of DC with EC is given by the following union of basic relations:
  DC ∘ EC = {DC, EC, PO}

A quick intuition for why no proper–part relation (TPP/NTPP) can occur is as follows. Suppose that, say, x were entirely inside z (one would then have either x TPP z if x touches z’s boundary or x NTPP z if it is kept in the interior). Then, since y touches z (that is, y “grabs” a point on z’s boundary) and because regions (and in particular their boundaries) are assumed to be “well behaved” (for example, connected), one would very likely force x to come close to or even touch y – contradicting DC(x,y). (In fact, if x were the container then the contact point on z’s boundary would be “visible” to x in many standard models.) A similar argument rules out the dual possibility where z is inside x.

Thus, the only three possibilities that can occur (by a suitable choice of the shapes and positions of x, y and z) are exactly those mentioned:
 • x and z are (remains) completely separated (DC);
 • x and z have boundaries that “just meet” (EC);
 • or x and z have a proper overlap (PO).

Thus, the final answer is:

  ### Answer: DC, EC, or PO.


ELAPSED TIME: 141.78 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 19520
COMPLETION TOKENS: 20267