PROMPT: If NTPPi(x,y) and TPP(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the following two facts:

1. NTPPi(x,y) is defined to be equivalent to NTPP(y,x). In words, y is a non‐tangential proper part of x—that is, y is entirely contained in the interior of x (its closure does not touch x’s boundary).

2. TPP(y,z) means that y is a tangential proper part of z—that is, y is properly contained in z but at least one point of y’s closure is in contact with z’s boundary.

Now we have a common intermediate region y such that:
 • y is “well inside” x (y ⊆ int(x)),
 • but y, while contained in z, reaches out to z’s boundary.

Because y ⊆ x and y ⊆ z, x and z must intersect—but the extra boundary conditions force restrictions on how one of x and z may lie wholly within the other.

Consider two cases:

(1) Suppose z is a subregion of x (z ⊆ x). Then, since y ⊆ z and y touches z’s boundary, z cannot “hide” entirely within the interior of x (because then its own boundary would lie wholly in the interior of x, and y would then be interior in z). Instead, z must “reach” x’s boundary. In RCC‐8 this is expressed by saying that z is a tangential proper part of x. In our notation this is TPP(z,x) which is written as TPPi(x,z) (the “i” indicates the inverse of TPP).

(2) Suppose neither region is contained in the other. Then x and z share a common part (namely y) but each also has some area outside the other. In RCC‐8 this is exactly the “partial overlap” (PO) relation.

It turns out that the other possibility—namely x ⊆ z—is ruled out by the following reasoning. If x ⊆ z, then because y ⊆ x and y touches z’s boundary, one would be forced to have an interior point of x (coming from y) lying on z’s boundary. But when well–behaved regions are assumed (as in RCC‐8, where regions are usually taken to be “regular”), the interior of any subregion of z will lie entirely inside the interior of z. Thus x ⊆ z in a non‐tangential way is not possible.

So the only two possibilities for the relation between x and z (given the two facts above) are:
 • either x and z partially overlap (PO), or 
 • z is a tangential proper part of x (i.e. TPPi(x,z)).

### Answer: PO(x,z) or TPPi(x,z)


ELAPSED TIME: 126.68 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 14080
COMPLETION TOKENS: 14718