PROMPT: If PO(x,y) and PO(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We will show that having x partially‐overlap y and y partially‐overlap z (written PO(x,y) and PO(y,z)) does not force a unique RCC‑8 relation between x and z. In fact, one may construct examples in which the relation between x and z is any one of the following base relations:

• DC (Disconnected)  
• EC (Externally Connected)  
• PO (Partially Overlapping)  
• TPP (Tangential Proper Part)  
• TPPi (the converse of TPP, i.e. x is a proper part of z or vice‐versa)

A short explanation follows.

Recall that PO(x,y) means that x and y share some interior but neither is contained in the other. Thus, there is “room” for variation: even though x and y overlap, x might lie at one end of y while some other part of y overlaps with z. For example, if y “bridges” two regions then it is quite possible that the piece of y that meets x is separated (or only barely in contact) with the part of y that meets z – so that x and z are even disconnected (DC) or merely touching (EC). Alternatively, the overlaps may “line‐up” so that x and z themselves have a nonempty interior intersection (PO). Finally, one may arrange that x (or z) is entirely contained in z (or x) — though, by the definition of PO, neither x is contained in y nor y in x, and similarly for y and z. In such cases one may have x ⊆ z (or z ⊆ x) but still have x PO y and y PO z. In RCC‑8 such a containment (with x ≠ z) is described by TPP (or its converse TPPi). (In many presentations the further distinction between “tangential” and “non‐tangential” proper part is made; however, the information in PO is not sufficient to decide this detail so that the proper‐part possibilities are usually given only as TPP/TPPi.)

Thus, the composition of two PO relations leads to an “uncertainty” result:
  PO ∘ PO ⊆ {DC, EC, PO, TPP, TPPi}.

(Notice that although one may have the degenerate case x = z – which is written EQ – the usual composition table for PO does not list EQ. In many applications one assumes that the objects are distinct so that EQ is ruled out.)

### Answer: 
The possible RCC‑8 relations between x and z (given PO(x,y) and PO(y,z)) are DC, EC, PO, TPP, and TPPi.


ELAPSED TIME: 77.41 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 12608
COMPLETION TOKENS: 13243