PROMPT: If TPPi(x,y) and TPP(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

Recall that by definition TPPi(x,y) means TPP(y,x) – that is, y is a tangential proper part of x (y ⊊ x and y “touches” x’s boundary) – and TPP(y,z) says that y is a tangential proper part of z.

Thus we know that y is (a proper, touching) part of both x and z. In any configuration of connected regions, this forces x and z to have non‐empty intersection (they at least share y) and in fact they must “agree” near the point where y touches the boundary of z (and also of x). One may then show that there are only three general cases for the relation between x and z:

1. x and z are identical (EQ). (This can happen if the two “container” regions turn out to be the same overall region.)

2. One region is (tangentially) a proper part of the other. For example, if x ⊊ z then because y ⊆ x and since y touches the boundary of z it follows that x must also come into contact with the boundary of z. In other words, x is a tangential proper part of z (TPP(x,z)). Similarly, if z ⊊ x then we have TPP(z,x), i.e. TPPi(x,z).

3. Neither of the two regions is contained in the other; they “overlap” (PO). In this case x and z share y (hence a non‐empty region) but each also has parts that the other does not contain.

It is important to note that although in RCC-8 there are also the nontangential proper part relations (NTPP and NTPPi), these cannot occur here. To explain briefly: if, say, x ⊆ z were to hold in a nontangential way (NTPP(x,z)), then x would be entirely “inside” z (with its entire interior in the interior of z). But since y (which is a subset of x) touches z’s boundary (by TPP(y,z)), some point of x would have to lie on z’s boundary – contradicting the non‐tangential condition.

Thus, the only possibilities for the relation between x and z are exactly the following (all in the standard RCC‐8 vocabulary):

• EQ(x,z)
• TPP(x,z) or, symmetrically, TPPi(x,z)
• PO(x,z)

Therefore, the final answer is:

  ### Answer: EQ, TPP (or its inverse TPPi), or PO. 


ELAPSED TIME: 81.87 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 10496
COMPLETION TOKENS: 11127