PROMPT: If TPPi(x,y) and EC(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the two given pieces of information:
 • TPPi(x,y) means that y is a tangential proper part of x (i.e. y ⊂ x and y touches x’s boundary).
 • EC(y,z) means that y and z are externally connected (their interiors do not overlap, but their boundaries do touch).

Now, since y is a part of x, any contact between y and z will “pull along” a contact between x and z. However, nothing forces z to be completely outside x; in fact several scenarios are possible depending on how z is located with respect to x. In particular, one may have:

1. x and z touch only at a (shared) boundary point. (For example, if z lies outside of x and only “bumps” into x at the point where y touches the boundary.) In that case x and z are externally connected: EC(x,z).

2. z may “intrude” into x so that x and z share some interior (but neither is contained in the other). (Imagine z having a “finger” that enters x near y’s contact point.) In this case the regions partially overlap: PO(x,z).

3. z may be entirely contained in x. (For example, if z lies inside x but still shares a boundary point with y.) In that case the relation between x and z is one of containment. Since z is a proper part of x, the relation (from the point of view of x) is given as the converse of TPP or NTPP. Depending on whether z touches the boundary of x or not, we have either:
  – TPPi(x,z) (i.e. z is a tangential proper part of x) if z reaches the boundary; or
  – NTPPi(x,z) (i.e. z is a non‐tangential proper part of x) if z lies entirely in the interior of x.

It is not possible for x and z to be disconnected (DC) or equal (EQ) because the fact that y ⊆ x and y EC z forces at least a boundary contact between x and z.

Thus, the possible RCC‑8 relations between x and z are:
 EC(x,z), PO(x,z), TPPi(x,z), and NTPPi(x,z).

### Answer: EC, PO, TPPi, and NTPPi


ELAPSED TIME: 70.20 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 10496
COMPLETION TOKENS: 11049