PROMPT: If NTPP(x,y) and TPPi(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the meanings of the two given relations. Recall that:

• NTPP(x,y) means that x is a proper “non‐tangential” part of y – in other words, x is completely contained in the interior of y (its closure is contained in the interior of y), so it does not touch y’s boundary.

• TPPi(y,z) is defined to be the same as TPP(z,y). And TPP(z,y) means that z is a tangential proper part of y – that is, z is contained in y but touches y’s boundary.

Thus, we have:
  x ⊆ y with x “well inside” y, and
  z ⊆ y with z “running up” to y’s boundary.

Since both x and z are parts of y, the exact spatial relationship between x and z will depend on how they lie inside y. Several possibilities can occur:

1. x might lie entirely inside z. In this case x is a proper part of z. Depending on whether the boundary of x touches the interior‐or the boundary‐of z, the relation could be either
  • NTPP(x,z) (if x lies completely in the interior of z) or 
  • TPP(x,z) (if the boundary of x touches the boundary of z).

2. x might and z might overlap but neither be contained in the other. Then the two regions share some but not all parts. That is, they are partially overlapping:
  • PO(x,z).

3. It is also possible that x and z are “separated” from one another within y. Even though they are both parts of y, they might lie in different areas so that they do not even touch (or at most only touch at a point on their boundaries). Then the spatial relation between x and z could be either
  • DC(x,z) (if they have no common boundary point) or
  • EC(x,z) (if they share a touching boundary without overlapping interiors).

Note that x and z cannot be equal since x is completely “inside” y while z must come up to (and so “feel”) the boundary of y.

Thus, the possible RCC‑8 relations between x and z are:
  DC, EC, PO, TPP, and NTPP.

### Answer: DC, EC, PO, TPP, and NTPP.


ELAPSED TIME: 31.66 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 2816
COMPLETION TOKENS: 3406