PROMPT: If NTPPi(x,y) and NTPP(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the given facts. Recall that

 • NTPP(a, b) means that a is a non‐tangential proper part of b (i.e. a ⊂ b and, more strongly, a stays away from the boundary of b).

 • NTPPi(x, y) is defined to be the same as NTPP(y, x) (i.e. y is a non‐tangential proper part of x).

Thus, our hypotheses

  NTPPi(x,y) and NTPP(y,z)

translate into

  NTPP(y, x) and NTPP(y, z).

That is, the region y is deeply (non‐tangentially) inside both x and z. In particular, since y ⊆ x and y ⊆ z (and even y is in the interior of x and of z) the regions x and z must at least have a non‐empty intersection (namely, they both contain y).

However, nothing further is assumed about the “size” or “position” of x relative to z apart from the fact that each properly contains y. In concrete terms one may imagine the following possibilities:

1. x and z might be exactly the same region. In that case x and z are equal (EQ).

2. x might be (properly) included in z. In that case we have
  x ⊆ z.
Now, depending on whether the boundary of x touches z’s boundary or not, the relation between x and z could be either TPP(x,z) (if x touches the boundary of z) or NTPP(x,z) (if x lies entirely in the interior of z).

3. Similarly, z might be (properly) included in x (that is, z ⊆ x). Then the relation between x and z is either TPPi(x,z) (i.e. TPP(z,x)) or NTPPi(x,z) (i.e. NTPP(z,x)) depending on the boundary situation.

4. Lastly, it is also perfectly possible for x and z to overlap (PO) even though each contains the region y in its interior. That is, neither x is contained in z nor is z contained in x, but they share the “core” region y.

Thus, given only that y is a non‐tangential proper part of both x and z, the relation between x and z can be any one that guarantees a “substantial” overlap (since they must share at least y) and, if there is any inclusion at all, that inclusion may be either tangential or non‐tangential.

In summary, the possible RCC–8 relations between x and z (in our standard vocabulary) are:
  • EQ (they may be equal),
  • TPP (or, equivalently, TPPi if the inclusion is in the other direction) or NTPP (or, respectively, NTPPi) – that is, one may be a proper part of the other,
  • PO (they may partially overlap).

Any other RCC–8 relation (such as DC or EC) is ruled out because x and z must share an interior part (namely, y).

### Answer:
EQ, PO, TPP (or its converse TPPi), and NTPP (or its converse NTPPi) are all possible between x and z.


ELAPSED TIME: 41.91 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 3264
COMPLETION TOKENS: 4076