PROMPT: If NTPP(x,y) and NTPPi(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the following definitions from RCC–8:

• NTPP(x,y) means that x is a non‐tangential proper part of y; that is, x is strictly inside y (x ⊂ y) and even the closure of x lies entirely in the interior of y.

• NTPPi(y,z) is defined as NTPP(z,y) (that is, it is the “inverse” of NTPP) so that z is a non–tangential proper part of y.

Thus, our two pieces of information are:
  (1) x is (non–tangentially) inside y, and
  (2) z is (non–tangentially) inside y.

Now, picture a region y (say, a disk) and two regions x and z that lie entirely “well‐inside” y. There is no further relation prescribed between x and z; they may be arranged arbitrarily inside y. Therefore all of the following configurations are possible:

1. x and z may be placed in entirely separate parts of y so that they do not meet at all. Then x and z are DisConnected (DC).

2. x and z may be arranged so that they “just touch” along part of their boundaries (but do not share any interior points). Then they are Externally Connected (EC).

3. They may be “partially overlapping” (PO) (that is, they share some but not all of their interior parts, and neither is a subset of the other).

4. They may happen also to lie in a containment relation. That is, one may be (non–tangentially or tangentially) a proper part of the other. (Recall that if x ⊆ z then—depending on whether the boundary of x touches that of z—x is either TPP(x,z) or NTPP(x,z); similarly if z ⊆ x then x is TPPi(x,z) or NTPPi(x,z).)

5. Finally, it is also possible that x and z are in fact the very same region (so that they are Equal, EQ).

Thus, starting from the hypotheses NTPP(x,y) and NTPPi(y,z) (i.e. NTPP(z,y)), we see that the relation between x and z can be any one of the RCC–8 base relations that are “compatible” with the fact that both x and z lie completely inside y. (Often one quotes the composition result as
  { DC, EC, PO, TPP, NTPP }
which is a shorthand for saying that either x and z are disjoint (DC), or touch (EC), or overlap in part (PO), or one is a (tangential or non–tangential) proper part of the other. Note that TPPi is just the converse of TPP, and similarly for NTPPi.)

Final Answer in the required form:

### Answer:
The possible RCC–8 relations between x and z are DC, EC, PO, TPP (or its converse) and NTPP (or its converse), which also includes the possibility that x = z (EQ).


ELAPSED TIME: 54.97 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 6784
COMPLETION TOKENS: 7563