PROMPT: If TPPi(x,y) and NTPPi(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the definitions. Recall that

• TPP(a,b) means “a is a tangential proper part of b” (that is, a ⊂ b and a touches the boundary of b).  
• TPPi(a,b) is defined to be the same as TPP(b,a); that is, a TPPi b means b is a tangential proper part of a.  
• NTPP(a,b) means “a is a non‐tangential proper part of b” (so a ⊂ b and a does not touch the boundary of b).  
• Similarly, NTPPi(a,b) means NTPP(b,a).

Now we are given:

1. TPPi(x,y). By definition this means TPP(y,x): y is a tangential proper part of x. In other words, y ⊂ x and the boundary of y touches the boundary of x.

2. NTPPi(y,z). This means NTPP(z,y): z is a non‐tangential proper part of y. That is, z ⊂ y and the closure of z is contained in the interior of y (so z does not reach y’s boundary).

Now, since z ⊆ y and y ⊆ x, it follows that z ⊆ x. Thus z is a proper part of x. However, what type of proper part is it? That depends on whether z “inherits” the tangential contact with x’s boundary from y or not.

Although y touches the boundary of x, the fact that z is a non‐tangential proper part of y means that the closure of z is contained in the interior of y. In many typical spatial configurations the interior of y (even though y touches x’s boundary) is itself entirely contained in the interior of x. In that case, z will also be “well inside” x – that is, z will be a non‐tangential proper part of x (written NTPP(z,x) or equivalently NTPPi(x,z)).

However, it is also possible (depending on the precise geometry) that even though z is fully inside y, it may be “large enough” or positioned so that its boundary does in fact touch the boundary of x. In that alternative case z would be a tangential proper part of x (written TPP(z,x), or equivalently TPPi(x,z)).

Thus, the possible relations between x and z (keeping with the RCC‐8 notation) are that z is a proper part of x, which can be either tangential or non‐tangential. In our notation, this is expressed as either

  TPPi(x,z)   (since TPPi(x,z) means TPP(z,x))  
or  
  NTPPi(x,z)  (since NTPPi(x,z) means NTPP(z,x)).

So the final answer is:

### Answer:
Either TPPi(x,z) or NTPPi(x,z) holds.


ELAPSED TIME: 41.64 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 4864
COMPLETION TOKENS: 5561