PROMPT: If TPPi(x,y) and DC(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We are given that

  TPPi(x,y) and DC(y,z).

Recall that by definition

  TPP(x,y) means “x is a tangential proper part of y” (so x is contained in y and touches its boundary),

and

  TPPi(x,y) is just the converse of TPP, namely it means TPP(y,x) (so y is a tangential proper part of x).

Thus from TPPi(x,y) we know that

  y ⊂ x  and  y touches the boundary of x.

Also, DC(y,z) tells us that y and z are disconnected (they do not share any spatial parts or even touch).

We now ask what may be the possible RCC‑8 relationship(s) between x and z. In any model satisfying the above we must have that z is “separated” from y, but note that this leaves several very different possibilities for the relation between x and z. In fact, one may imagine the following cases:

1. z lies entirely “outside” of x. Then x and z are far apart, so the relation between x and z is either:
  • DC (disconnected), or
  • EC (externally connected) if at most their boundaries touch.

2. z overlaps x but with the “overlap” avoiding y (which is inside x). Then x and z share some interior, but neither is a part of the other. In RCC‑8 terms this is PO (partial overlap).

3. z lies entirely inside x. This must be arranged so that z is separated from y. (Remember, y ⊂ x but y and z must be DC.) In that case, z is a proper part of x. Now there are two sub‐cases:
  • If z touches the boundary of x then we have TPP(z,x). But by our naming convention, TPP(z,x) is the same as TPPi(x,z).
  • If z does not touch the boundary of x then we have NTPP(z,x), and by symmetry the corresponding relation from x’s point of view is written as NTPPi(x,z).

Note that the possibility that x is a proper part of z (or that x equals z) cannot occur. For if that were so, then since y ⊂ x we would have y ⊆ z, contradicting the fact that DC(y,z).

Thus, given TPPi(x,y) and DC(y,z) the only possible relationships between x and z (from the RCC‑8 set) are the following:

 • DC, EC, PO, or “z is a proper part of x” meaning either TPPi(x,z) (if z touches x’s boundary) or NTPPi(x,z) (if it does not).

We can now state the final answer in the required format.

### Answer:
x and z may be either (i) disconnected (DC) or externally connected (EC), (ii) partially overlapping (PO), or (iii) be in a proper‐part relation where z is a proper part of x (i.e. either TPPi(x,z) or NTPPi(x,z)).


ELAPSED TIME: 32.44 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 3712
COMPLETION TOKENS: 4485