PROMPT: If PO(x,y) and TPPi(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We will show that when we assume that

  (1) x partially overlaps y (written PO(x,y)) and  
  (2) y is “in‐a TPPi–relation” with z (written TPPi(y,z))—

then, keeping in mind that TPPi is defined as the converse of TPP, the relationship TPPi(y,z) means that

  TPPi(y,z) ⇔ TPP(z,y).

In words TPP(z,y) tells us “z is a proper part of y that touches y’s boundary.” (That is, z is “just inside” y; it is contained in y but “comes right to the edge” of y.)

Let us now explain the setup and then justify what may happen between x and z.

1. Because PO(x,y) holds, x and y have a non‐empty overlap (their interiors have nonempty intersection) but neither is a part of the other. In other words, x “sticks partly into” y, and also leaves some of its mass outside y.

2. Since TPP(z,y) holds, we have that z ⊂ y (with z “touching” the boundary of y) but z is certainly “inside” y.

Thus, the overlap between x and y (which we call I = x ∩ y) may “cover” z completely, partially, or miss z entirely. In other words, since x enters y in some “window,” we can imagine three (broad) families of possibilities as to what the spatial relation between x and z may be.

(a) In one case x’s “intrusion” into y might be placed so that it does not hit z at all. (For example, imagine that y is a disk, z a circular “hole” somewhere inside y near its boundary, and x a region that touches y but “enters” y at a different part.) In that situation x and z do not share any part. They might be simply disconnected (DC) or – if their boundaries happen to meet – externally connected (EC).

(b) In another case the part of x that lies inside y might meet z in a “partial‐overlap” way. (Imagine now that x “pokes in” so that it overlaps partially with z but does not cover it entirely, nor is z contained in x.) In that situation the most natural conclusion is that the relation between x and z is PO.

(c) In a third case the manner in which x “intrudes” into y might be such that it “covers” z entirely, that is, z is completely inside x. (Here x “reaches in” far enough to swallow all of z even though x as a whole is not contained in y, for it extends outside.) Now one must decide whether x “just barely” covers z (touching its boundary) – which is expressed by saying “z is a TPP of x” (i.e. TPP(x,z) holds) – or whether z is “deeply inside” x (so that the boundary of z is not even touched by x’s interior). In the language of RCC‐8 one would express these as either TPP or NTPP (with the inverses TPPi or NTPPi occurring when we consider the converse relation).

Thus, between x and z we cannot rule out the possibility that:
 • they are separated (with no shared interior) -- either DC or EC,
 • they partially overlap (PO), or
 • one is a proper part of the other (in one of two ways—“touching” or “non‐touching”)
  – i.e. either TPP or NTPP in one direction (or, equivalently, TPPi or NTPPi in the opposite direction).

It is impossible for x and z to be equal (EQ) because z is properly contained in y while x only partly overlaps y.

Because we are not given any additional metric or topological detail, all of these alternatives are really “in principle” possible given only the two facts PO(x,y) and TPPi(y,z).

Final answer in the requested form:

  ### Answer: The possible relations between x and z are DC, EC, PO, TPP (or its converse TPPi), NTPP (or its converse NTPPi).


ELAPSED TIME: 16.87 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 1472
COMPLETION TOKENS: 2389