PROMPT: If TPP(x,y) and NTPPi(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start with the two given constraints. First, TPP(x,y) tells us that x is a proper part of y and moreover x touches y’s boundary. Second, the relation NTPPi(y,z) is defined by
  NTPPi(y,z) = NTPP(z,y)
so that NTPP(z,y) tells us that z is a proper part of y but in a “non‐tangential” way (z is wholly in the interior of y, i.e. the boundary of z does not meet the boundary of y).

Thus we know that both x and z are parts of y, but in different ways. In particular, x touches the boundary of y while z stays well inside y.

Because x and z are both contained in y, many different spatial configurations are possible between them. For example, one may “place” the two parts so that they are far apart, or so that they “just touch” each other, or so that one is even included in the other. However, note that the fact that x touches y’s boundary while z is completely interior to y prevents z from ever “covering” x (that is, from x being a proper part of z) – because if x ⊆ z then x would be entirely inside z and so could not include any point on y’s boundary (since z is away from y’s boundary). Hence the possibility of x being “inside” z is ruled out.

Let’s now list the possibilities that can occur:
 1. x and z might be spatially separated within y. In that case they do not share any point (or share only a boundary point) so their relation would be DC (Disconnected) or EC (Externally Connected). In RCC–8 usually DC means that the two regions are completely separated with no common boundary, and EC means that they “touch” (share some boundary but no interior).
 2. The regions may overlap without one being a part of the other. In this case, they partially share some common portion but neither is contained in the other, so the relation is PO (Partial Overlap).
 3. Alternatively, if x is “large‐enough” compared to z, then it is possible that z is in fact a proper part of x. (For instance, x–being part of the boundary‐touching y–might “wrap around” the “nice interior” region z.) In that case the relation from x to z is one of a proper part relation. Since the relation in RCC–8 is not “direction‐free” we need to decide whether x touches the boundary of z or not. If the boundary of x meets z’s boundary then we call that TPP(x,z) (Tangential Proper Part) and if not then we call it NTPP(x,z) (Non‐Tangential Proper Part).
 4. Note that the reverse possibility – namely that x is a proper part of z – is ruled out. If x were contained in z then x would be entirely inside an interior region of y (since z is interior to y) and so x could not be of contact with y’s boundary, contradicting TPP(x,y).

So in summary, given TPP(x,y) and NTPPi(y,z) the possible spatial relations between x and z are:
 – DC (x and z are disconnected)
 – EC (x and z are externally connected)
 – PO (x and z partially overlap)
 – TPP(x,z) (x is a tangential proper part of z)
 – NTPP(x,z) (x is a non‐tangential proper part of z)

Any answer that lists exactly these five possibilities is acceptable.

### Answer:
DC, EC, PO, TPP, or NTPP.


ELAPSED TIME: 15.70 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 1472
COMPLETION TOKENS: 2363