PROMPT: If TPP(x,y) and TPPi(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We start by “unpacking” the given statements. Recall that

  • TPP(x, y) means “x is a proper part of y and touches y’s boundary” and  
  • TPPi(y, z) means “y is a tangential proper part of z” (equivalently, TPP(z, y)).

Thus, we have

  (1) x TPP y  
  (2) z TPP y

So both x and z are (tangential) proper parts of y. (They “reach” y’s boundary.) In our problem x and z have no other a priori relationship except that they are both contained in y “in a similar way.” Because the RCC‐8 vocabulary is “qualitative” in nature, the (unspecified) spatial arrangement of these parts in y may lead to several possibilities for the relation between x and z.

Let’s briefly consider the options.

1. It is possible that x and z are arranged so that they do not touch at all. In that case the RCC–8 relation between x and z would be DC (disconnected).

2. It is also possible that x and z happen to “just meet” along a boundary (or boundaries) (with no overlapping interior parts). Then their relation would be EC (externally connected).

3. If x and z have overlapping interiors without one being contained in the other then the relation is PO (partial overlap).

4. Alternatively, one of x and z might be a proper part of the other. Now note that when a region is a tangential proper part of its container, it touches the boundary of the container. Thus it is conceivable that the “smaller” one might lie completely inside the “larger” one. (For example, if x “hugs” one part of y’s boundary and z “covers” more of y’s boundary then x might even be (tangentially) contained in z.) In that case the relation could be TPP (i.e. x TPP z) or, in the opposite case, TPPi (which is defined as “the inverse of TPP”, meaning that z TPP x).

Notice that we cannot get NTPP (non‐tangential proper part) here because by the definitions both x and z already touch the boundary of y. (And if one were a non‑tangential proper part of the other then it would have no contact with the boundary of its container, a contrast with the hypothesis that x and z are tangentially related to y.)

Finally, EQ (equality) is ruled out by “proper” in TPP.

Thus, the possible RCC–8 relations between x and z (that is, the ones that are consistent with the given assumptions) are:
  DC, EC, PO, TPP, and TPPi.

We therefore conclude:

  ### Answer: DC, EC, PO, TPP, and TPPi.


ELAPSED TIME: 11.13 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 768
COMPLETION TOKENS: 1400