PROMPT: If TPPi(x,y) and NTPP(y,z) then what are the possible relationships between x and z?

ANSWER:

We are given that

  (1) TPPi(x,y) and (2) NTPP(y,z).

Recall that, by definition, TPP(x,y) means that x is a proper part of y and touches (i.e. contacts) y’s boundary. Moreover, TPPi(x,y) is defined to be the converse of TPP; that is,

  TPPi(x,y) ≡ TPP(y,x).

Thus statement (1) tells us that y is a (tangential) proper part of x (i.e. y ⊂ x, and y touches the boundary of x).

Statement (2) tells us that y is a non‐tangential proper part of z; that is, y ⊂ z and y lies entirely in the interior of z (so that y does not touch z’s boundary).

Now, let us “chain” these two pieces of information. We know that y is a (proper) part of both x and z. However, nothing further is assumed about the remaining parts of x and z. In particular, nothing guarantees that all of x is contained in z or vice‐versa. Hence, when we “compose” these two relations, several possibilities may arise for the overall relation between x and z. (In fact, this is typical in qualitative spatial reasoning when composing relations.)

There are three main cases to consider:

1. x is entirely contained in z. In this case, we have x ⊆ z. But then one must ask whether the contact with the boundary is preserved. There are two subcases:
 a. x touches z’s boundary. Then x TPP z.
 b. x lies entirely in the interior of z. Then x NTPP z.

2. z is entirely contained in x. By symmetry, then we have z ⊆ x. Again two subcases:
 a. z touches x’s boundary (so that z is a tangential proper part of x). Equivalently, x TPPi z.
 b. z is wholly in the interior of x (so that z is a non‐tangential proper part of x). Equivalently, x NTPPi z.

3. Neither x ⊆ z nor z ⊆ x. In that case x and z overlap (since they both share y in common) but neither is a (proper) part of the other. In RCC–8 language this is the PO (partial overlap) relation: PO(x,z).

Thus, the possible RCC–8 relationships between x and z that are consistent with TPPi(x,y) and NTPP(y,z) are exactly the following five possibilities (noting that TPPi and NTPPi are just the converses of TPP and NTPP respectively):

  • x TPP z or x NTPP z  (when x ⊆ z)
  • x TPPi z or x NTPPi z  (when z ⊆ x)
  • x PO z        (when neither is contained in the other)

Any answer which lists these as the possible relations is correct.

### Answer:
x and z may be in any one of the following RCC–8 relations:
  x TPP z (or, equivalently, z TPPi x),
  x NTPP z (or, equivalently, z NTPPi x), or
  x PO z.


ELAPSED TIME: 18.42 seconds
REASONING TOKENS: 1472
COMPLETION TOKENS: 2406